# Wazuh Customizations

The Wazuh dashboard white-labeling feature allows you to replace the following elements with custom ones.

- Logos in the Wazuh dashboard.
- Logo, header, and footer in PDF reports.


## Custom Logo

In the Wazuh dashboard, under Settings -> Configuration -> Custom Branding. Also located at `serverURL.com/app/wazuh#/settings?tab=configuration`. Under the Custom branding section, set up the following properties:

- **App Main Logo**: This logo is used in the app main menu, at the top left corner. Supported extensions: .jpeg, .jpg, .png, .svg. Recommended dimensions: 300x70px. Maximum file size: 1 MB.
- **Healthcheck logo**: This logo is displayed during the Healthcheck routine of the app. Supported extensions: .jpeg, .jpg, .png, .svg. Recommended dimensions: 300x70px. Maximum file size: 1 MB.
- **PDF Reports Logo**: This logo is used in the PDF reports generated by the app. It's placed at the top left corner of every page of the PDF. Supported extensions: .jpeg, .jpg, .png. Recommended dimensions: 190x40px. Maximum file size: 1 MB.
- **Navigation Drawer Logo**: This is the logo for the app to display in the platform's navigation drawer, this is, the main sidebar collapsible menu. Supported extensions: .jpeg, .jpg, .png, .svg. Recommended dimensions: 80x80px. Maximum file size: 1 MB.

### Reports Header & Footer

- **Reports footer**: Set the footer of the reports. Maximum amount of lines: 2. Maximum lines length is 50 characters.
- **Reports header**: Set the header of the reports. Maximum amount of lines: 3. Maximum lines length is 40 characters.

## Change Site Title

To customize the title please edit your /etc/wazuh-dashboard/opensearch_dashboards.yml by adding the following line:

`opensearchDashboards.branding.applicationTitle: 'Title'`

Please remember to restart the service after saving the file:

`systemctl restart wazuh-dashboard`

Documentation for reference: https://opensearch.org/docs/1.2/dashboards/branding/

# Reference:

- [Wazuh Docs: How to setup Custom Branding](https://documentation.wazuh.com/current/user-manual/wazuh-dashboard/custom-branding.html)
- [Change Wazuh Site Title (Github Issue)](https://github.com/wazuh/wazuh/discussions/18571)